README.md, before:

# Leezenflow Source Code

This repo contains the (python) code to run [Leezenflow](https://github.com/bCyberGmbH/leezenflow-doku).

## Requirements

The hardware setup is described in detail in this [guide](https://github.com/bCyberGmbH/leezenflow-doku/blob/main/case.md).
The basics are:
- Raspberry PI 3 Model B+
- [Adafruit RGB Matrix HAT + RTC for Raspberry Pi](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2345)
- [32x32 RGB LED Matrix Panel - 5mm Pitch](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2026)
- [64x32 RGB LED Matrix - 5mm pitch](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2277)

To test the setup we recommend to check out: https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix
As stated in the docs, you should disable sound: https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix#bad-interaction-with-sound
and bridge GPIO Pins 4 and 18 as documented here: https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix#improving-flicker

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66736282/131323333-051d12f2-3675-4559-b143-b1451a63ec5d.png)
Source: https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix/blob/master/img/adafruit-mod.jpg

**Reminder: use the `--led-gpio-mapping=adafruit-hat-pwm` flag after you've modified the Matrix hat!**

## Installation
- check out this repo this to e.g. `/home/pi/`
- `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`
- start an endless simulation with `sudo python3 leezenflow.py --test 3`

## Production usage

- copy `config.ini.example` to `config.ini` and adjust the settings as needed
- Setup this code to run as a system service, as described in this guide: https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/computers/using_linux.html#creating-a-service
- After testing the service, run: `sudo systemctl enable leezenflow.service` to enable automatic startup after a reboot

**Reminder: do not forget to use the `python3 -u` flag in your service definition to prevent logging problems**

Commit message:

MSHACK animation integrated (#1)
* Easier reinstall

* Add details to installation process in Readme

* Change interpreter logic (now uses timestamps)

* WIP: MSHACK2022 animation

* Working version of the MSHACK 2021 animation

README.md, after:

# Leezenflow Source Code

This repo contains the (python) code to run [Leezenflow](https://github.com/bCyberGmbH/leezenflow-doku). It includes a script to parse the traffic light data (mqtt_message_interpreter.py) and the animation (leezenflow.py).

## Requirements

The hardware setup is described in detail in this [guide](https://github.com/bCyberGmbH/leezenflow-doku/blob/main/case.md).
The basics are:
- Raspberry PI 3 Model B+
- [Adafruit RGB Matrix HAT + RTC for Raspberry Pi](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2345)
- [32x32 RGB LED Matrix Panel - 5mm Pitch](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2026)
- [64x32 RGB LED Matrix - 5mm pitch](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2277)

To test the setup we recommend to check out: https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix.\
As stated in the docs, you should disable sound: https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix#bad-interaction-with-sound
and bridge GPIO Pins 4 and 18 as documented here: https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix#improving-flicker

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66736282/131323333-051d12f2-3675-4559-b143-b1451a63ec5d.png)
Source: https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix/blob/master/img/adafruit-mod.jpg

## Installation
- For initializing your Raspberry Pi with an operating system, install the official Raspberry PI imager (we used version v.1.7.2) on a computer with a microSD card reader. Plug in an empty microSD card and select Raspberry Pi OS (other) -> Raspberry Raspberry Pi OS Lite (32-Bit). We used version 2022-04-04. Make sure that you activate SSH.
- Find out the ip address of your Raspberry Pi and connect to it using `ssh pi@IPADDRESS`.
- Install git, e.g. using `sudo apt update` and `sudo apt install git`.
- Install pip, e.g. using `sudo apt-get install python3-pip`
- Clone [rpi-rgb-led-matrix](https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix) to e.g. `/home/pi/`
- You can adjust the Makefile if you made any hardware modifications. See: https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix/tree/master/bindings/python 
- Build the library. First, change directories into `rpi-rgb-led-matrix/bindings/python/`. Then:
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install python3-dev python3-pillow -y
make build-python PYTHON=$(command -v python3)
sudo make install-python PYTHON=$(command -v python3)
```
- Deactivate the sound module as described in the readme of https://github.com/hzeller/rpi-rgb-led-matrix.
- Check an example by running `sudo python runtext.py` in directory `rpi-rgb-led-matrix/bindings/python/samples/`
- Another example: `sudo python pulsing-brightness.py --led-gpio-mapping=adafruit-hat-pwm --led-cols=96 --led-rows=32`
- Let's add the Leezenflow code: Clone this repo this to e.g. `/home/pi/`
- `sudo pip install -r requirements.txt`
- Start an endless simulation with `sudo python leezenflow.py --test 3`

The implemention assumes you have made the "adafruit-hat-pwm" modification to your hardware.

## Production usage

- copy `config.ini.example` to `config.ini` and adjust the settings as needed
- Setup this code to run as a system service, as described in this guide: https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/computers/using_linux.html#creating-a-service
- After testing the service, run: `sudo systemctl enable leezenflow.service` to enable automatic startup after a reboot

**Reminder: do not forget to use the `python3 -u` flag in your service definition to prevent logging problems**
